# ASP.NET Core MVC File Upload Starter Project
A website for uploading photos. The website resizes photos and associates them with database items. Authorized users can create/edit/delete items and add/remove photos for each item.

### Environment:
- Visual Studio 2022 Community Edition
- .NET Core 6.0
- Bootstrap 5.1
- SQL Server Express
- Entity Framework Core 6.01 Code First

### Installation:
Open the solution file in Visual Studio, then:
1. From Solution Explorer, click on the project solution.
2. Select *Restore Client-Side Libraries* from the drop-down menu.
2. From the Visual Studio 2022 main menu, select:
*Tools->NuGet Package Manager->Package Manager Console*
3. Enter the following two commands into the console:
> Add-Migration Initial
> 
> Update-Database

You will also need to grant your web server write access to the folder wwwroot/pics.
### Description:
The purpose of this project is to give a head-start on back-end code. This project contains all the code generated by Visual Studio using the template for a new ASP.NET Core Web App (Model-View-Controller) project. I then had Visual Studio generate scaffolding using 'Add MVC Controller with Views, Using Entity Framework'.  Changes and additions I made to the resultant code include:
- Created POCO classes for Item and Photo. Each Item contains its own collection of Photos. 
- Restructured the generated database code. I added UnitOfWork and Repository classes so transaction processing can more easily be implemented across multiple tables. 
- Added  cookie authentication to secure administrative functions. You will find the login credentials in appsettings.json.
- Added code to allow Admin users to create/modify items and upload photos for each item. The code creates three copies of each photo; original size, medium size, and small size.
- Implemented a Bootstrap carousel to display the uploaded photos for each item.
- Updated Bootstrap, JQuery, and FontAwesome to latest versions.

Minimal styling has been done to the views. You will need to design the front-end to your own requirements. You will need to add much more code to make a production website. 
